plugins/multi-agent-orchestrator/docs/protocol.md, before:

# Task Board Protocol (Milestone B)

This protocol is file-backed and runnable in local mode.

## Message Types

- `[TASK]`: task creation events.
- `[CLAIM]`: ownership updates and claim transitions.
- `[DONE]`: completion events.
- `[BLOCKED]`: blocker events.
- `[REVIEW]`: reserved for Milestone C review workflow.
- `[DIAG]`: diagnostic follow-up tasks (debugger role).

Protocol defaults live in `docs/protocol-config.json` and are mirrored in plugin schema.

Milestone publishing format is intentionally low-noise:

- 1-3 lines only.
- Must include `taskId`, status, owner/assignee hint, and one key detail.
- Prefix constrained to protocol tags (`[TASK]/[CLAIM]/[DONE]/[BLOCKED]/[DIAG]`).

## State Files

- `state/tasks.jsonl`: append-only event stream.
- `state/tasks.snapshot.json`: materialized task map used by router/status.
- `state/scheduler.kernel.json`: 内置调度内核状态（enabled、intervalSec、maxSteps、lastRunTs、nextDueTs）。
- `state/scheduler.daemon.json`: 调度守护循环状态（loops、runs、errors、lastResult）。
- `state/locks/`: reserved for future lock hardening.

## Command Intents

The command router maps plain text (or direct override text) to intents:

- `create task [task-id]: <title>` -> `create_task`
- `claim task <task-id>` -> `claim_task`
- `mark done <task-id>: <result>` -> `mark_done`
- `block task <task-id>: <reason>` -> `block_task`
- `escalate task <task-id>: <reason>` -> `escalate_task`
- `status [task-id]` -> `status`
- `synthesize [task-id]` -> `synthesize`

### Escalate to Debugger

`escalate task` is the built-in hook to integrate the `debugger` role into the workflow:

- It blocks the original task with `[BLOCKED]`.
- It creates a new diagnostic follow-up task with `[DIAG]`.
- The follow-up task includes `assigneeHint=debugger` and `relatedTo=<originalTaskId>`.

Example:

- `escalate task T-101: feishu webhook auth failing`

## Direct @agent Override

Prefix command text with `@agent-name` to attach routing metadata:

- Example: `@debugger create task T-900: investigate stale locks`
- Router behavior in Milestone B: records `overrideAgent` metadata only.
- Transport layer behavior is intentionally unchanged.

## Visibility vs Execution

- Source of truth remains local task board files (`tasks.jsonl` + snapshot).
- Default execution is manual dispatch: orchestrator sends `[CLAIM]`/`[TASK]`, then waits for report-based completion.
- Spawn closed-loop is opt-in (`--dispatch-spawn`) or via `@orchestrator autopilot [N]`.
- Visibility mode is switchable:
  - `milestone_only` (default)
  - `handoff_visible` / `full_visible` emit visible worker handoff report with real `@orchestrator` mention.
- Group messages remain milestone summaries for human observability; task state source of truth is local board files.

## Acceptance Policy Gate

- Any `done` transition is evaluated by acceptance policy (`config/acceptance-policy.json`).
- Global rule: report must contain evidence.
- Role rule: each role can require keyword classes (e.g. coder requires test/verify/log style signals).
- If policy fails, router converts attempted `done` into `blocked` with actionable reason.

## Structured Dispatch Prompt & Report

- Dispatch now sends a structured prompt to worker agents, including:
  - `TASK_CONTEXT`
  - `BOARD_SNAPSHOT` (status counts + blocked/pending top tasks)
  - `TASK_RECENT_HISTORY` (recent events for current task)
  - `EXECUTION_REQUIREMENTS` (role/task-type specific)
  - `OUTPUT_SCHEMA`
- Preferred worker output is a single JSON object with fixed fields:
  - `taskId`, `agent`, `status`, `summary`, `changes`, `evidence`, `risks`, `nextActions`
- Classifier remains backward-compatible with legacy free-text/loose JSON responses, but structured output is recommended for stable auto-progression.

## Broadcast Guardrails

- Default active broadcaster: `orchestrator`.
- Optional secondary broadcaster: `broadcaster` (explicit opt-in).
- Clarify requests are orchestrator-only and role-targeted with cooldown throttle.

## Synthesis Pipeline (Stub)

`synthesize` aggregates task board entries with status `done`, `review`, or `blocked` and returns a report string:

- Includes task id, status, owner, optional `relatedTo`, and result/review/block reason.
- Designed as a Milestone B bridge until cross-agent output collection is added.

## Milestone C Hooks

- Real lock ownership + stale lock recovery.
- Review assignment and `[REVIEW]` state transitions.
- Event replay and snapshot compaction tooling.


## Feishu Orchestrator Commands (MVP)

- `@orchestrator 帮助`
- `@orchestrator 开始项目 <absolute-path>`
- `@orchestrator 控制台`
- `@orchestrator 项目状态`（等价 `status`）
- `@orchestrator 自动推进 开 [N] | 关 | 状态`
- `@orchestrator 调度 开 [分钟] | 关 | 状态`
- `@orchestrator create project <name>: <task1>; <task2>; ...`
- `@orchestrator run [taskId]`
- `@orchestrator autopilot [N]`
- `@orchestrator status [taskId]`
  - 无 taskId: 返回中文摘要（状态计数 + 阻塞Top + 待推进Top）
  - `status all` / `status full`: 返回扩展列表（仍有上限）
- `@orchestrator create task ...` / `claim ...` / `done ...` / `block ...` / `escalate ...` / `synthesize [taskId]`
- `@orchestrator dispatch <taskId> <role>: <task>`
- `@orchestrator clarify <taskId> <role>: <question>`（带全局+角色节流）

Wake-up v1: team members report progress/completion with `@orchestrator` (include task id like `T-001`).
`@orchestrator run [taskId]` 默认执行认领+派发（手动模式）；`@orchestrator autopilot [N]` 或 `--dispatch-spawn` 才会走自动 spawn 闭环（自动完结为 `[DONE]` / `[BLOCKED]`）。
bot->bot 派发模板会带 Feishu API mention 标签（如 `<at user_id="...">orchestrator</at>`），以便在 Feishu 中形成真实@提醒与 mention gating。
人工用户仍通过 Feishu UI 直接输入 `@orchestrator` 即可，无需手写 mention 标签。
若指定已完成任务（`done`），会返回幂等提示：`[DONE] T-xxx 已完成，无需重复执行`，且不改状态。

## Hybrid Worker Routing (Scheme B)

- orchestrator 继续负责任务看板、派发、验收和里程碑广播。
- 当 `dispatch/autopilot` 对象是 `coder` 且开启 spawn 闭环时，默认执行器为 `codex_cli`（bridge: `scripts/lib/codex_worker_bridge.py`）。
- bridge 使用 `codex exec --output-schema --output-last-message` 约束输出为结构化 JSON。
- 非 coder 角色默认执行器仍为 `openclaw_agent`。
- 调度结果中 `spawn` 包含：
  - `executor`: `codex_cli|openclaw_agent|custom`
  - `plannedCommand`: 计划执行命令（用于审计与排障）

Inbound wrapper parsing helper: `scripts/feishu-inbound-router` (used by orchestrator agent runtime).

## Scheduler Kernel (Scheme C P0)

- CLI entrypoint:
  - `python3 scripts/lib/milestones.py scheduler-run --root . --action <enable|disable|status|tick>`
  - optional flags: `--interval-sec`, `--max-steps`, `--force`, `--spawn/--no-spawn`
  - 常驻轮询：`python3 scripts/lib/milestones.py scheduler-daemon --root . --max-loops 0 --poll-sec 5`
- Feishu control entrypoint:
  - `@orchestrator 调度 开 5`（设置 interval=300s 并立即尝试 tick 一次）
  - `@orchestrator 调度 状态`
  - `@orchestrator 调度 关`
- Card control entrypoint (Scheme B):
  - `@orchestrator 控制台`（按钮：开始项目、推进一次、自动推进开关、查看阻塞、验收摘要）
- Execution model:
  - 调度器本身只决定“是否到期与是否触发”，实际执行仍复用 `autopilot_once`。
  - 默认到期判断：`enabled=true` 且 `nextDueTs<=now`；`--force` 可绕过到期判断。
  - `scheduler-daemon` 前台循环轮询并持续触发 `scheduler_run_once(action=tick)`，因此无需外部 cron。

Commit message:

feat(orchestrator): finalize batch3 dependency fields and priority tests

plugins/multi-agent-orchestrator/docs/protocol.md, after:

# Task Board Protocol (Milestone B)

This protocol is file-backed and runnable in local mode.

## Message Types

- `[TASK]`: task creation events.
- `[CLAIM]`: ownership updates and claim transitions.
- `[DONE]`: completion events.
- `[BLOCKED]`: blocker events.
- `[REVIEW]`: reserved for Milestone C review workflow.
- `[DIAG]`: diagnostic follow-up tasks (debugger role).

Protocol defaults live in `docs/protocol-config.json` and are mirrored in plugin schema.

Milestone publishing format is intentionally low-noise:

- 1-3 lines only.
- Must include `taskId`, status, owner/assignee hint, and one key detail.
- Prefix constrained to protocol tags (`[TASK]/[CLAIM]/[DONE]/[BLOCKED]/[DIAG]`).

## State Files

- `state/tasks.jsonl`: append-only event stream.
- `state/tasks.snapshot.json`: materialized task map used by router/status.
- `state/scheduler.kernel.json`: 内置调度内核状态（enabled、intervalSec、maxSteps、lastRunTs、nextDueTs）。
- `state/scheduler.daemon.json`: 调度守护循环状态（loops、runs、errors、lastResult）。
- `state/locks/`: reserved for future lock hardening.

### Task Priority Fields (Batch 3)

Task snapshot entries support these scheduling fields (with backward-compatible defaults):

- `dependsOn: string[]` (default `[]`): prerequisite task ids; only `done` prerequisites are treated as satisfied.
- `blockedBy: string[]` (default `[]`): explicit blockers. If value references task ids, blocker is cleared only when that task is `done`; plain text blockers are always unresolved until edited out.
- `priority: number` (default `0`)
- `impact: number` (default `0`)

Scheduler behavior:

- Ready queue includes only runnable tasks whose `dependsOn`/`blockedBy` are fully satisfied.
- Selection from ready queue is deterministic for the same snapshot (stable score then `taskId` tie-break).
- `run`/`autopilot` dry-run payloads include `selection` with `score` and `reason`.

## Command Intents

The command router maps plain text (or direct override text) to intents:

- `create task [task-id]: <title>` -> `create_task`
- `claim task <task-id>` -> `claim_task`
- `mark done <task-id>: <result>` -> `mark_done`
- `block task <task-id>: <reason>` -> `block_task`
- `escalate task <task-id>: <reason>` -> `escalate_task`
- `status [task-id]` -> `status`
- `synthesize [task-id]` -> `synthesize`

### Escalate to Debugger

`escalate task` is the built-in hook to integrate the `debugger` role into the workflow:

- It blocks the original task with `[BLOCKED]`.
- It creates a new diagnostic follow-up task with `[DIAG]`.
- The follow-up task includes `assigneeHint=debugger` and `relatedTo=<originalTaskId>`.

Example:

- `escalate task T-101: feishu webhook auth failing`

## Direct @agent Override

Prefix command text with `@agent-name` to attach routing metadata:

- Example: `@debugger create task T-900: investigate stale locks`
- Router behavior in Milestone B: records `overrideAgent` metadata only.
- Transport layer behavior is intentionally unchanged.

## Visibility vs Execution

- Source of truth remains local task board files (`tasks.jsonl` + snapshot).
- Default execution is manual dispatch: orchestrator sends `[CLAIM]`/`[TASK]`, then waits for report-based completion.
- Spawn closed-loop is opt-in (`--dispatch-spawn`) or via `@orchestrator autopilot [N]`.
- Visibility mode is switchable:
  - `milestone_only` (default)
  - `handoff_visible` / `full_visible` emit visible worker handoff report with real `@orchestrator` mention.
- Group messages remain milestone summaries for human observability; task state source of truth is local board files.

## Acceptance Policy Gate

- Any `done` transition is evaluated by acceptance policy (`config/acceptance-policy.json`).
- Global rule: report must contain evidence.
- Role rule: each role can require keyword classes (e.g. coder requires test/verify/log style signals).
- If policy fails, router converts attempted `done` into `blocked` with actionable reason.

## Structured Dispatch Prompt & Report

- Dispatch now sends a structured prompt to worker agents, including:
  - `TASK_CONTEXT`
  - `BOARD_SNAPSHOT` (status counts + blocked/pending top tasks)
  - `TASK_RECENT_HISTORY` (recent events for current task)
  - `EXECUTION_REQUIREMENTS` (role/task-type specific)
  - `OUTPUT_SCHEMA`
- Preferred worker output is a single JSON object with fixed fields:
  - `taskId`, `agent`, `status`, `summary`, `changes`, `evidence`, `risks`, `nextActions`
- Classifier remains backward-compatible with legacy free-text/loose JSON responses, but structured output is recommended for stable auto-progression.

## Broadcast Guardrails

- Default active broadcaster: `orchestrator`.
- Optional secondary broadcaster: `broadcaster` (explicit opt-in).
- Clarify requests are orchestrator-only and role-targeted with cooldown throttle.

## Synthesis Pipeline (Stub)

`synthesize` aggregates task board entries with status `done`, `review`, or `blocked` and returns a report string:

- Includes task id, status, owner, optional `relatedTo`, and result/review/block reason.
- Designed as a Milestone B bridge until cross-agent output collection is added.

## Milestone C Hooks

- Real lock ownership + stale lock recovery.
- Review assignment and `[REVIEW]` state transitions.
- Event replay and snapshot compaction tooling.


## Feishu Orchestrator Commands (MVP)

- `@orchestrator 帮助`
- `@orchestrator 开始项目 <absolute-path>`
- `@orchestrator 控制台`
- `@orchestrator 项目状态`（等价 `status`）
- `@orchestrator 自动推进 开 [N] | 关 | 状态`
- `@orchestrator 调度 开 [分钟] | 关 | 状态`
- `@orchestrator create project <name>: <task1>; <task2>; ...`
- `@orchestrator run [taskId]`
- `@orchestrator autopilot [N]`
- `@orchestrator status [taskId]`
  - 无 taskId: 返回中文摘要（状态计数 + 阻塞Top + 待推进Top）
  - `status all` / `status full`: 返回扩展列表（仍有上限）
- `@orchestrator create task ...` / `claim ...` / `done ...` / `block ...` / `escalate ...` / `synthesize [taskId]`
- `@orchestrator dispatch <taskId> <role>: <task>`
- `@orchestrator clarify <taskId> <role>: <question>`（带全局+角色节流）

Wake-up v1: team members report progress/completion with `@orchestrator` (include task id like `T-001`).
`@orchestrator run [taskId]` 默认执行认领+派发（手动模式）；`@orchestrator autopilot [N]` 或 `--dispatch-spawn` 才会走自动 spawn 闭环（自动完结为 `[DONE]` / `[BLOCKED]`）。
bot->bot 派发模板会带 Feishu API mention 标签（如 `<at user_id="...">orchestrator</at>`），以便在 Feishu 中形成真实@提醒与 mention gating。
人工用户仍通过 Feishu UI 直接输入 `@orchestrator` 即可，无需手写 mention 标签。
若指定已完成任务（`done`），会返回幂等提示：`[DONE] T-xxx 已完成，无需重复执行`，且不改状态。

## Hybrid Worker Routing (Scheme B)

- orchestrator 继续负责任务看板、派发、验收和里程碑广播。
- 当 `dispatch/autopilot` 对象是 `coder` 且开启 spawn 闭环时，默认执行器为 `codex_cli`（bridge: `scripts/lib/codex_worker_bridge.py`）。
- bridge 使用 `codex exec --output-schema --output-last-message` 约束输出为结构化 JSON。
- 非 coder 角色默认执行器仍为 `openclaw_agent`。
- 调度结果中 `spawn` 包含：
  - `executor`: `codex_cli|openclaw_agent|custom`
  - `plannedCommand`: 计划执行命令（用于审计与排障）

Inbound wrapper parsing helper: `scripts/feishu-inbound-router` (used by orchestrator agent runtime).

## Scheduler Kernel (Scheme C P0)

- CLI entrypoint:
  - `python3 scripts/lib/milestones.py scheduler-run --root . --action <enable|disable|status|tick>`
  - optional flags: `--interval-sec`, `--max-steps`, `--force`, `--spawn/--no-spawn`
  - 常驻轮询：`python3 scripts/lib/milestones.py scheduler-daemon --root . --max-loops 0 --poll-sec 5`
- Feishu control entrypoint:
  - `@orchestrator 调度 开 5`（设置 interval=300s 并立即尝试 tick 一次）
  - `@orchestrator 调度 状态`
  - `@orchestrator 调度 关`
- Card control entrypoint (Scheme B):
  - `@orchestrator 控制台`（按钮：开始项目、推进一次、自动推进开关、查看阻塞、验收摘要）
- Execution model:
  - 调度器本身只决定“是否到期与是否触发”，实际执行仍复用 `autopilot_once`。
  - 默认到期判断：`enabled=true` 且 `nextDueTs<=now`；`--force` 可绕过到期判断。
  - `scheduler-daemon` 前台循环轮询并持续触发 `scheduler_run_once(action=tick)`，因此无需外部 cron。
